# The honor code

As members of the Code Fellows community, each of us upholds and supports a high standard of personal, and community, honesty and integrity.  We believe these values are critical to a community dedicated to learning, personal development, and a search for understanding. We consider them essential in promoting personal responsibility, moral and intellectual leadership, and pride in ourselves and our organization.

Therefore, each of us agrees to represent ourselves truthfully, claim only work that is our own, properly attribute collaborations, and engage honestly in all assignments.  Moreover, each of us shares the responsibility for encouraging and reinforcing the importance of integrity in other community members.  Members of the Code Fellows community who misrepresent themselves or their work through cheating, fabrication, facilitation, plagiarism, etc, or who suspect another of such misrepresentation are expected to follow the Reporting Procedures outlined.  Code Fellows instructors and leaders reserve the right to remove any students or graduates who fail to live up to these standards from bootcamps, classes, or other parts of community membership, as appropriate.

Consistent with the basic expectations of the Honor Code, students who believe they may have violated Code Fellows’ standards of integrity are expected to acknowledge their concerns to the instructor in the class or to Code Fellows staff.  Moreover, a student who observes what may be any dishonest behavior on the part of another student is expected to share that concern with the student immediately. At that point, if either student believes that an Honor Code violation may have occurred, the student observed is expected to self-report the incident immediately to the instructor in the class or to his or her or administrative adviser. Self-reporting does not constitute an admission of guilt but is an essential step, necessary to prevent misunderstanding and apprehensions. Within three class days, the observer will also contact a member of Code Fellows management to insure that the self-report has indeed taken place.  The instructor will review the elements of the complaint, and if the instructor believes that the Honor Code has been violated, he or she will contact a member of Code Fellows management, who will take appropriate action.
